KNN : K Nearest Neighbours

KNN Intuition : You are the average of 5 people you spend the most time with.

Suppose we have a dataset : IQ | CGPA | Placement and based on IQ and GPA we predict whether the candidate is placed or not 

We decide a value of k , means we consider 3 nearset neighbours.

We get a query point , we know his iq and gpa , now predict whether hes placed or not.


In knn , for the given query point , we take the euclidean distance from all points to the query point.
100 distacnes caluclated , one for each point and sort them in ascending order. And thr closet points will be on the top .
We apply a rule called majority count. 
Then we decide the class label of neareat point. 

While training the model make sure all data is on same scale , like some cols might be in percentages and some in decimals and some in whole numbers and some in floats , make sure all are aligned with only 1 unit of measurement
If we dont use same scale , the distance will be calculated inaccurately as one metric will dominate on one side. 
KNN can be worked in any dimensional data


How to select K? Depends on data , 2 ways: 
1) Heuristic approach : sqrt(n) , n- no of observations , aviod even value for k , cause we take k=4 and our query point lies around 2 points for class 0 and lies around 2 points for class 1 then we get conflict.
2) Experimentation : cross validation : consider 1000 obs , 800 in train aqnd 200 in test , create diff knn models with k=1,2,3,4.... , then we train these knns on the train data and then use use the test data on the models and then find the accuracy scores.
                    and select that model whos accuracy score is highest.

Decision Surface / Boundary : Tool to understand the perfomance of classification algorithm.
We can use it any classifciation model
How to generate it? Plot your training data , cal range of data on x and y axis , for the whole range generate numppy meshgrid , then we train our knn using the data and then send our data into the model and encode 0 with orange and 1 with blue , then plot these as 
pixels on the graph. 

Library : mlxtend to plot this decision surface.


Overfitting anf Underfitting in KNN

cgpa| iq| placed : have data for 200 students , if k=1 , then the querys class will be the nearest neighbours class. Sometimes the query pointmustbe in blue but since its nearest point is pink it might be predicted as pink. 
Overfitting : data has high variance , different o/p on different data .


Underfitting: what is the max value of k = max val of n =200 , k=200 , and we get a query point and consider the 200 nearesit neighbours and then our whole data is considered, then the o/p will be the data which is dominated. of which has more no of data points either bl
blue or pink. 

K= low --> Overfitting
K= high -> Underfitting

Need to find intermediate value through experimentation 


Limitations of KNN:

Failure cases:
-> When we have lage datasets. n=5 lakh and features =100
   KNN is a lazy leanring technique , during traning no work and all work at prediction phase.

-> High dimensional data : Features =500 , curse of dimensionality , distance concept is not reliable.

-> KNN doesnt work well with outliers

-> Non homogenous scales : different units of measurements : one feature dominates the other then while calculating distance its not reliale

-> Imbalanced dataset : When only 1 o/p data points are dominated and biased

-> Using KNN for inference and not for prediction :  it acts like a black box model , it can say which feature is more important to predict the output









































































 
